
# MSID_PROJECT_PART1

## Overview
This project is focused on data analysis and visualization using Python. It includes several scripts to process and visualize datasets in various formats, including generating plots like histograms, box plots, heatmaps, and more.

## Requirements
- Python 3.x
- Required libraries:
    - pandas
    - matplotlib
    - seaborn

Install the required dependencies using the following command:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## How to Run the Scripts
1. **Running the main analysis script**:
   Run the main Python script that performs the primary analysis:
   ```bash
   python data_analysis_main.py
   ```

2. **Running individual visualizations**:
   Each of the following scripts can be run individually to generate specific plots:

   - **Boxplot**:
     ```bash
     python create_boxplot.py
     ```
   - **Error Bar Plot**:
     ```bash
     python create_errorbar.py
     ```
   - **Heatmap**:
     ```bash
     python create_heatmap.py
     ```
   - **Histogram**:
     ```bash
     python create_histogram.py
     ```
    - **Histogram Condition**:
       ```bash
       python create_histogram_cond.py
       ```
     - **Violin Plot**:
       ```bash
       python create_violinplots.py
       ```
     - **Linear Regression Plot**:
       ```bash
       python create_linear_regr.py
       ```
    - **Get cathegorical fields basic statistics**:
       ```bash
       python get_info_kateg.py
       ```
     - **Get numerical fields basic statistics**:
       ```bash
       python get_info.py
       ```

## Data Files
Ensure that the following dataset files are present in the same directory as the scripts:
- `depr_dataset.csv`: The main dataset for analysis.
- `res_kateg.csv` and `result.csv`: Output results generated by the analysis scripts.

## Folders
   -  `photos`: Folder for all vizualizations
## Notes
- Each script can be executed independently. If you want to generate only a specific plot, run the respective script.
- Ensure all required data files are available in the working directory.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
